{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2820
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16860\viewh20160\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 01\
\
Charal\'e1, Santander is a quiet town tucked into Colombia\'92s eastern Andes. It\'92s known for its quiet strength, rich coffee, and a spirit of resilience that lingers in the land and its people.\
\
I ended up there by chanc. Exhausted, sunburnt, and one-third of the way through Transcordilleras, a 1,000-kilometer bikepacking race with over 20,000 meters of climbing. I wasn\'92t ready. Not mentally, not physically. By day three, I handed in my tracker and withdrew. With no plan, I stayed at the hostel, figuring I\'92d make my way back to Bogot\'e1 on slower, simpler roads.\
\
Over lunch, I asked the hostel manager if he knew any coffee producers. He made a call. A few hours later, Oscar Castro pulled up in his pickup truck and invited me to visit his farm.\
\
Oscar\'92s farm, Bellavista, sits at 1,900 meters above sea level. He works a few hectares with his family and neighbors, pooling coffee and banana harvests to sell in town.\
\
His coffee is Castillo, a hardy, high-altitude hybrid\'97delicate and floral with soft orchard fruit and a clean, structured finish. He walked me through the farm and sent me off with stove-top roasted coffee.\
\
After spending the day in the pool, I rode back to Bogot\'e1 at my own pace, stopping to take in the views. Stopped in R\'e1quira, Colombia\'92s ceramics capital, and Villa de Leyva. A stop at my cousin\'92s in Ch\'eda and 500km later I was back to Bogot\'e1. \
\
That was March 2024. By January, after thinking about that trip almost daily, I called Oscar to see if there was any way to get his coffee to the U.S.\
\
A friend who is on a similar side quest of bringing delicious dark chocolate from a remote area in Colombia gave me some tips for shipping. Using Fedex\'92s last minute rates I was able to import 40kg of green coffee with parchment.\
\
It turns out, green coffee in parchment is almost unheard of in the US. So, In New York, with no equipment, I had to hull it by hand.  After two hours I had enough for a sample roast. The first sip floored me. I didn\'92t have the words to describe it, but it was the perfect cup. \
\
Since then, I\'92ve doubled down. I took a roasting class at Multimodal, visited coffee pop-ups, talked with importers and exporters, kept hulling by hand, building toward a larger roast.\
\
In July, I roasted about 30 kilograms, packaged it in 150-gram bags, and sold them through Instagram. They sold out instantly. I sent bags to friends and family, and delivered some by bike around New York, which felt like a full-circle moment.\
\
Now I\'92m leaning into this. Small-batch (for now) importing, exporting, and micro-roasting. Soon I\'92ll have my exporter license and be able to bring more from Bellavista.\
\
I\'92m excited to keep learning the craft. \
\
If you\'92ve read this far and want to know when the next lot arrives, sign up for the newsletter. I\'92m also working on side quests like a pour over coffee timer and recycling the parchment into various objects. Potentially coasters \
}